>> Mike North: The last topic I wanna
cover today is dealing with this concept
of aggregates in domain driven design.
And this has to do with
thinking about consistency,
by that I mean data consistency.
So imagine this scenario,
we're able to move plants
within a raised bed.
And let's say we build a system
that is modeled this way,
where we would say we've got
a task that needs to be performed.
>> Mike North: And we build a nice little
semantic action, right, instead of saying,
I have this big update API call and
I'm gonna set the new array of your
items within your bed and
here are the XY coordinates.
Let's say we had a really nice
thing that kind of looks this,
>> Mike North: Right,
something like this spiritually.
And let's say our app's really popular and
we end up having to get big beefy
databases to handle all of this.
And we decide that what
we can do is we can say,
if we implement something called charting,
which is the idea
of saying we actually have multiple
databases and Seth's raised beds and
my raised beds, they can actually
be on different databases.
It's fine.
We can kind of spread the data out
a little bit, there's no ambiguity.
Like Mike's raised beds
are always on database A,
Seth's are on database B,
and everything's fine.
And maybe in fact we can sort of mix them
up a little bit where like I might have
some beds on database A, some on database
B, but it doesn't affect this because
this, you can think of this as like one,
right, happening in one place.
But what happens when we want to write
across those different concepts?
You could imagine how we would
say we've got bed one and
bed two and we've got a plant.
>> Mike North: When we start getting
into this, it gets really interesting
where we're trying to move
this into another bed.
Now if we were to say, look,
there's an update plant position,
or let's say it's something like this.
>> Mike North: Think about
what might happen if one side
of this fails and the other succeeds.
This inevitably happens once in a while.
We think about our big distributed
systems as having some number of
nines of reliability and
sometimes errors are thrown.
But imagine a world where I'm trying
to move plant from bed 1 to bed 2 and
the remove plant operation fails, but
the add plant operation succeeds.
And so now I've cloned this plant somehow.
Like there are two of it.
Or you could have it disappear
entirely where you remove it and
then add plant fails.
And you could say, well,
let's check the success of the first
call before proceeding with the second.
But sometimes you lose
state if you do that.
Okay, you check to see if imagine remove
plant is successful, add plant fails.
Are you gonna add it back
into the prior raised bed?
What you're trying to do there,
if you go in that direction,
is you're trying to create this illusion
that there is an atomic operation,
that both of these things, the removal
from the old bed, the addition to the new,
is a single operation that either
all succeeds or all fails.
And this is really important when we
think about what is the aggregate here.
And I would say in this case it's this,
>> Mike North: Garden.
Because what you could do is you could
say, no, no, no, it's really garden.
>> Mike North: It's really like this.
And what you could do, if you get
deeper into databases and things,
you can create what's called a database
transaction, it's basically doing
the in one atomic operation that
either all succeeds or all fails.
It's the removal of the plant from bed 1
and the placement of the plant in bed 2.
Inevitably, especially if you work on
something with significant complexity,
you're going to have
to make these choices.
You're gonna have to decide what
are the atomic operations you can perform.
And usually what that means
is we would say this,
actually, I'm gonna change
the model here a little bit.
We'd say this whole thing and
I'm gonna have to move this to back.
This is the aggregate,
that whole larger rectangle and
the garden, we would say is as
a lot of aggregates have.
Can I move this to the front, please?
Yep, perfect and this to the front.
>> Mike North: Well,
we can move it in here.
It's fine.
You'd say, well,
garden is kind of like the root node.
And so often when you pick an aggregate,
you have to say, what is the entity?
That's sort of the main
purpose of this thing.
And yes, there may be like a lot of
other things embedded within it,
but the important thing is like
choosing the transactional boundary.
And in doing that you're making choices.
You're saying, well,
within this brown box here,
that's where we are internally consistent.
You're never gonna be able to
load the page at a weird time and
see a plant has been added to a new
zone but not removed from another zone.
And that would be internally inconsistent.
But it does also mean when you make
choices like this, you're designing for
inconsistency, at least momentarily,
to appear in other places where
it may be okay in a neighborhood where
you're moving a bunch of plants around.
All right, two different gardens may
be one is totally fresh data and
the other is somewhat stale.
But at least the totality of data
within each of those two gardens will
be the same level of freshness,
if that makes sense.
So thinking about this as part of your
domain modeling is really important,
especially working at Stripe, when
you're thinking about transactions and
refunds and
ledgers that have to all add up.
So that at any moment in time when you
load this page, you're not seeing that
the balance in your account is different
than what you're seeing in another page.
So sometimes these can be
really important to your user.
And personally, I find this to be kind of
one of the trickiest areas to have those
relatable discussions with users.
And often you wanna hone in
on this idea of freshness.
Is it okay to view this data if it's
stale, but at least it's all the same
amount of stale and
you're never seeing a partial state there.
And if you talk to an accountant about
that and they're like, you're gonna show
me a ledger where certain items are still
waiting to sort of percolate through,
that's useless.
That's gonna be a real problem there.
So this is the concept of aggregates and
designing transactional
boundaries with intent.